---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.7 released"
date: 2016-05-19 19:40:00 +0200
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.7,
  consisting of 116 commits since the last feature release
  seven weeks ago.
---

# Magit 2.7 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.7, consisting
of 116 commits since the last feature release seven weeks ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git Porcelain inside Emacs

Magit is an interface to the version control system Git, implemented
as an Emacs package.  Magit aspires to be a complete Git porcelain.
While we cannot (yet) claim that Magit wraps and improves upon each
and every Git command, it is complete enough to allow even experienced
Git users to perform almost all of their daily version control tasks
directly from within Emacs.  While many fine Git clients exist, only
Magit and Git itself deserve to be called porcelains.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home].

# Overview

Features added in this release include:

* Added support for the Git subcommand `subtree`.  The subtree
  commands are available from a new popup on `O`.
  
* Added support for the Git subcommand `worktree` and related
  functionality.  The branch popup now features two commands for
  creating an additional working tree.  Existing working trees can be
  listed in the status buffer by adding `magit-insert-worktrees` to
  `magit-status-sections-hook` and these sections can be used to visit
  working trees (`RET`) or to delete them (`k`).
  
* Branch variables can now be modified using a separate popup which
  itself is available from other relevant popups.  For backward
  compatibility reasons the branch popup continues to feature the same
  variables.  Set `magit-branch-popup-show-variables` to `nil` to
  change that.
  
* The `magit-file-popup`, intended for use in file-visiting buffers,
  gained a few additional commands.  (To use this popup enable the
  global mode `magit-file-mode`, it will then be available on `C-c
  M-g`.)  There now exist two commands for showing a log for the
  visited file and likewise two commands for showing such diffs.

* Setting the new option `magit-log-buffer-file-locked` to `t` causes
  the log and diff commands from the `magit-file-popup` to use
  separate buffers to show the one-file log/diff.  This has the
  advantage, that when you later want to show a full log/diff using
  the regular log/diff popup, it isn't necessary to manually unset the
  file filter.
  
Additionally several existing commands have been improved.  This
release also includes many bug fixes and documentation improvements.
For information please also see the [release notes][relnotes].

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/4k3u7j/magit_v27_released/).***

[home]:     https://magit.vc
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.7.0.txt
