---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.5 released"
date: 2016-02-10 23:30:00 +0100
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.5,
  consisting of 78 commits since the last feature release
  two weeks ago.
---

# Magit 2.5 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version **2.5**,
consisting of 78 commits since the last feature release two weeks ago.
The release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git Porcelain inside Emacs

Magit is an interface to the version control system Git, implemented
as an Emacs package.  Magit aspires to be a complete Git porcelain.
While we cannot (yet) claim that Magit wraps and improves upon each
and every Git command, it is complete enough to allow even experienced
Git users to perform almost all of their daily version control tasks
directly from within Emacs.  While many fine Git clients exist, only
Magit and Git itself deserve to be called porcelains.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home].

# End of an era?

This release doesn't contain any particularly noteworthy
[changes][relnotes] and generally much fewer changes than
[previous feature releases][releases] did.  Nevertheless it is an
important milestone because finally I am satisfied with the result
enough to take a break and to reconsider my involvement in the
project.

Working on Magit was a lot of fun, but not only.  It was also work.
[Lots][lots] of almost unpaid work.  The work did not only consist of
coding and discussing potential improvements and new features -
i.e. of rewarding work.  It also involved writing documentation and
then also patiently helping those users who don't read documentation.

I've been planning to "finish Magit" and to *then* run a fundraiser
for a very long time now.  Magit is also the main bullet point in my
curriculum vitae.  I always tried to act professionally.  E.g. I have
gone out of my way to provide support and to allow users to configure
Magit to act exactly as they wish.

The most frustrating part about maintaining Magit, and probably any
fairly popular FOSS project, is that many users just don't appreciate
how diverse its user base really is, and that this means that they
cannot always have it their way.  Such exaggerated user expectations
combined with essentially doing the work for free has taken its toll,
which is why I need a break now.

I think that I have managed this project quite professionally, except
for one crucial detail: I neglected the part about insisting to be
paid like a professional.  So "taking a break" may not be a completely
accurate description of what I am going to do over the next few
months.

The best part about maintaining Magit is
[hearing from satisfied users][praise].  It's nice to hear that I am
not the only one who thinks I have done a good job.  But unfortunately
that does not put any food on the table.

Over at least the next two months I am going to only put a minimal
amount of work into Magit.  I am going to fix bugs, but I won't
implement any new feature, won't review any involved pull requests,
won't extensively comment on feature requests, and won't answer any
questions that can be answered by looking at the existing
documentation.

Before I became Magit's maintainer (without noticing it until it was
to late), I was just about ready to release a Git submodule based
package manager for Emacs packages.  I have continued to occasionally
work on that and the related [Emacsmirror][mirror], but so far haven't
released anything.  Over the next week I am going to release a few
packages and data sets related to this.  At least for the time being
these things will be released as-is, i.e. I won't provide much support
and I won't implement any new features (however essential and/or
trivial they might be).

The plan was to "finish Magit" and then write a carefully worded essay
explaining why you should support my work on Magit financially.  This
is not it.  This is only a quick draft from the top of my head.  I
also have not started a fundraiser yet, but you can
[donate here][donate] if you want to restore my faith in this actually
being a viable option.

These are the next steps I will take:

1. Publish the Emacsmirror related tools and data sets.
2. Take an *actual* break.
3. Prepare a fundraiser and contact potential employers and corporate
   sponsors.

And these are some possible outcomes:

1. Users and/or corporate sponsors pay enough to provide a decent
   income.
2. I get employed and the employer allows me to work on Magit as part
   of the job.
3. I get employed but don't get any time to work on FOSS.  My new job
   needs all my attention and at least for the first half a year I
   won't be working on Magit in my free time.
4. There are not enough donations and I also cannot find a job.
   Working on a widely used Emacs package does not put food on the
   table and my experience doesn't appear to be worth anything on the
   job market.  I am forced to turn to other things to prove my worth
   to potential employers.
   
<br/>Sincerely,
<br/>Jonas Bernoulli
<br/>
<br/><jonas@bernoul.li>

<br/><br/>***Comments on
[Here](https://gist.github.com/tarsius/a1903bdbf8dfec8f6de7),
and Reddit
([2016-01-30](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/41gd3h/magit_v24_released)
[2016-02-10](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/455n6g/end_of_an_era_magits_maintainer_is_taking_a_break))***

[home]:     https://magit.vc
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.5.0.txt
[releases]: https://github.com/magit/magit/releases
[lots]:     https://magit.vc/stats/authors.html#commits_per_author
[praise]:   https://magit.vc/quotes
[mirror]:   https://github.com/emacsmirror/p
[donate]:   https://magit.vc/donations
