---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.8 released"
date: 2016-08-21 22:56:00 +0200
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.8,
  consisting of 124 commits since the last feature release
  three months ago.
---

# Magit 2.8 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.8, consisting
of 124 commits since the last feature release three months ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git Porcelain inside Emacs

Magit is an interface to the version control system Git, implemented
as an Emacs package.  Magit aspires to be a complete Git porcelain.
While we cannot (yet) claim that Magit wraps and improves upon each
and every Git command, it is complete enough to allow even experienced
Git users to perform almost all of their daily version control tasks
directly from within Emacs.  While many fine Git clients exist, only
Magit and Git itself deserve to be called porcelains.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home].

# Outlook

This summer I was away from my computer for about six weeks, so this
release took a little longer than usual.  I intend to concentrate on
bug fixes for the next two months, so the next feature release likely
will take a little longer too.

We are getting much fewer feature requests now than we used to, which
hopefully means that Magit now finally handles all the immediate needs
of most users.  But that doesn't mean that I am running out of ideas.
On the contrary, this will allow me to focus on long overdue and more
involved changes again, which take longer to implement but when
finished pay off more than all those little changes that have been
happening on the fringe.

# New features

## Improved window handling

In the past, users who wanted Magit's status buffer to take up the
full frame had to rely on hacks to achieve what they wanted.  Several
blog posts have been floating around which explained one way or
another to achieve that.

Starting with this release you can remove these kludges and simply
choose between several ready-made functions each of which handles
Magit's windows in a distinct manner.  There's even more than one
full-screen variant available to choose from now.

I implemented the abstraction which allows users to easily change how
Magit displays its windows by simply defining a single function
several releases (v2.3) and months ago, and hoped that users would
contribute such implementations.  Unfortunately that never happened.
Now Kyle Meyer, one of my co-maintainer, has implemented the variants
I suggested last year and a few more.

To pick a variant, customize the option `magit-display-buffer-function`.
You can read more about the available variants [in the manual][display],
or directly in the Custom interface.

When I first added `magit-display-buffer-function`, that caused some
hacks to break, because they relied on implementation details.  To
avoid something similar from happening in the future, we have decided
to version the new display variants.  The function names all have the
suffix `-v1`.  If we should decide that one of them could be improved,
then we will do so by adding a new version instead of changing the
older implementation.

## Listing repositories

The new command `magit-list-repositories` shows a list of your local
repositories in a separate buffer.  Before it can do that you have to
tell Magit where your repositories are located by customizing the
option `magit-repository-directories`.

The list buffer can be refreshed by pressing `g`, and `RET` takes you
to the status buffer for the repository on the current row.

The columns to be displayed can be selected using the new option
`magit-repolist-columns`.

For more information see the [documentation][repolist].

Note that you can also jump directly to the status buffer of any known
repository by calling `magit-status` with a prefix argument.

## Listing submodules

The new command `magit-list-submodules` shows a list of the current
repository's submodules in a separate buffer.

The list buffer can be refreshed by pressing `g`, and `RET` takes you
to the status buffer for the submodule on the current row.

The columns to be displayed can be selected using the new option
`magit-submodule-list-columns`.

For more information see the [documentation][modlist].

Note that you can also display information about a repository's
submodules in the super-repositories own status buffer.  To learn how
to do that follow the above link.

## Other improvements

As usual, this release also adds several other new commands
(`magit-branch-orphan` and `magit-log-move-to-parent`) and options
(`magit-log-output-coding-system`, `magit-no-message`,
`magit-bisect-show-graph`), and improves existing commands
(`magit-stage`, `magit-branch-*`, `magit-log-*`, `magit-diff-*`,
`magit-ediff-*`).  For details about these and other changes,
including bug fixes, see the full [release notes][relnotes].

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/4yx3gg/magit_v28_released/).***

[home]:     https://magit.vc
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.8.0.txt
[display]:  https://magit.vc/manual/magit/Switching-Buffers.html
[repolist]: https://magit.vc/manual/magit/Repository-List.html
[modlist]:  https://magit.vc/manual/magit/Listing-Submodules.html
