---
layout: default
title: "Borg 2.0 and Epkg 3.0 released"
date: 2017-09-20 17:00:00 +0200
categories: borg
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Borg v2.0,
  Epkg v3.0, Closql v0.4 and Emir v2.0.
---

# New Borg, Epkg, Closql and Emir releases

I am excited to announce these releases: [borg] v2.0, [epkg] v3.0,
[closql] v0.4 and [emir] v2.0.

## Introduction

A short summary of what these packages do might be in order:

- `borg` is a bare-bones package manager that installs packages using
  Git submodules.  It is most useful to package authors and users who
  also contribute to the packages that they use.

- `epkg` provides access to a database containing information about
  ~6600 Emacs packages.  It provides tools for querying the SQL
  database and an user interface to list packages and to view detailed
  information about individual packages.

- `closql` stores objects in SQLite databases.  It relies on `emacsql`
  by Christopher Wellons and was written to be used by `epkg`.

- `emir` is used to maintain the [Emacsmirror], including the package
  database.

Earlier announcements and discussions about the Emacsmirror and these
packages:

- [Re-introducing the Emacsmirror][post1] ([on r/emacs][reddit1])
- [Assimilate Emacs packages using Git submodules][post2]
- On r/emacs: [Borg: Manage packages as Git submodules][reddit2]

Until a few months ago `borg` did not have more than a handful of
users, but recently it gained some popularity.  Given its limited
feature set and the up-front warnings about rough edges found in the
earlier announcements, this slow start is not really surprising, and
I did actually hope and expect that it would fly under the radar for
a while.

Still I put a lot of work into the Emacsmirror and these packages,
going back long before the initial `borg` and `epkg` releases about
one and a half years ago, so I do hope that they will grow in
popularity eventually and am happy that this has began now.  Someone
even created [an extension][borg-queen] to `borg`!

I am quite proud of these packages.  The guiding principal is "achieve
more by doing less".  Which — somewhat to my own surprise — does not
mean that I haven't added any new features, just that I usually put up
a big fight first ;-) So far I haven't outright rejected any suggested
features, and some of the features that I have ruled out in the
initial announcement are actually back on the table.  Never-the-less,
moving slow and keeping the code base and feature set small are still
very important to me — but that's not a problem because one of
`borg`'s biggest strengths is that it makes dealing with stubborn
maintainers easy.

## Getting started

Originally I planned to give the [user][borg-manual]
[manuals][epkg-manual] a makeover before creating new releases, but
have now decided that that can wait until later.

The manuals are up-to-date, but they would benefit from some
reorganization and there isn't any documentation on how to convert an
existing configuration to use `borg` (but some [unpolished
notes][convert] are available).

If you are not already using `borg`, then I recommend that you wait a
few more weeks until I have improved the documentation, as I probably
won't have the time to help new users individually.

On the other hand there's no reason to delay taking `epkg` for a spin.

## Updating from older versions

Normally updates are seamless, but this time around you might end up
in an inconsistent state because the database schemata changed, making
it necessary to update `epkg` and the database at the same time.

If you read this before attempting to update, then proceed like so:

1. Update the drones mentioned here, using Magit or `git` — as usual.
2. Quit Emacs.
3. In `~/.emacs.d/epkgs/` run `git pull`.
4. In `~/.emacs.d/` run `make`.

If you update `epkg` without updating the database at the same time,
or vice-versa, then `epkg` will complain about that when you first
attempt to access the database and advice you on how to recover.

## New features

These are just the highlights, if you already use `borg`, then you
should also read the latest entries in the [borg][borg-changes],
[epkg][epkg-changes] and [closql][closql-changes] changelog files.

### Review packages before installation

The new command `borg-clone` makes it easier to review a package
before assimilating (installing) it.  Assimilating a package gives
that package a change to run arbitrary code, so the review should
happen first.  I strongly recommend that you use this command and only
use `borg-assimilate` once you have inspected the cloned package.

Some other commands that previously only operated on assimilated
packages can now also deal with packages that have only been cloned
but which are not being tracked as submodules (yet).

### Store GNU Elpa and Melpa recipes as first class objects

The database has always contained information about packages from GNU
Elpa and Melpa.  Now the upstream recipes can be accessed as objects,
and queried using reasonable SQL queries just like the core
"Emacsmirror metadata" as seen by `epkg`.

This required major changes to `closql` and some boilerplate in `epkg`
and `emir`.  It also meant that some table schemata had to be updated.

For now this mostly benefits me as the maintainer of the Emacsmirror
and as a Melpa contributor, but I do hope that eventually other people
will use the database more actively than just to browse the available
packages.  But again, that probably needs some additional
documentation.

## Planned features

### Cooperate with `package.el`

While `borg` was initially intended as an alternative to `package.el`,
I understand that most users prefer the simplicity of the latter.

Still I think that package maintainers should run their own packages
from the Git repository instead of using that only for development and
installing the package using `package.el`.  And some of the upcoming
Magit features will probably live on feature branches for a while and
I would like to make it easier to use those so that I get more
feedback before merging into `master`.

This entails:

- Teach `package.el` about packages installed by `borg`, i.e. assume
  that they are installed.

- Support installing packages without also assimilating them,
  i.e. support automatically activating packages that are not being
  tracked as submodules.  That would remove the sharpest of the sharp
  edges and might make `borg` more attractive to casual users.

- Add `borg` to Melpa.

### Further improve security

Package archive maintainers cannot possibly review all packages for
security issues and malicious code, so users have to share some of the
burden.  We should however make it easier to identify packages that
might deserve more scrutiny than others and prevent mistakes.

- It should be possible to hide insecure packages from package lists
  (as is already possible for packages that are no longer maintained).

- When such a package is displayed anyway for some reason, then it
  should be marked as insecure.

- When the user proceeds to install an unsafe package, then s/he
  should have to confirm explicitly before any potentially malicious
  code gets executed.

- Verify GPG signatures and allow users to insist on packages being
  signed.  While this is a good idea in principal, I fear that it
  won't do much good as most maintainers don't sign their tags or even
  every commit.  Still basic support at least should be available.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/71bqu3/borg_20_and_epkg_30_released).***

[borg]:           https://github.com/emacscollective/borg
[epkg]:           https://github.com/emacscollective/epkg
[closql]:         https://github.com/emacscollective/closql
[emir]:           https://github.com/emacscollective/emir
[Emacsmirror]:    https://emacsmirror.net
[post1]:          /2016/04/16/re-introducing-the-emacsmirror
[post2]:          /2016/05/17/assimilate-emacs-packages-as-git-submodules
[reddit1]:        https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/4js0tr/assimilate_emacs_packages_using_git_submodules
[reddit2]:        https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/60uy4a/borg_manage_packages_as_git_submodules
[borg-manual]:    https://emacsmirror.net/manual/borg
[epkg-manual]:    https://emacsmirror.net/manual/epkg
[borg-queen]:     https://github.com/thblt/borg-queen
[convert]:        https://github.com/emacscollective/borg/issues/12
[borg-changes]:   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/emacscollective/borg/master/CHANGELOG
[epkg-changes]:   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/emacscollective/epkg/master/CHANGELOG
[closql-changes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/emacscollective/closql/master/CHANGELOG
