---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.10 released"
date: 2017-01-04 18:30:00 +0100
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.10,
  consisting of 85 commits since the last feature release
  one month ago.
---

# Magit 2.10 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.10, consisting
of 85 commits since the last feature release one month ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git interface inside Emacs

Magit is an interface to the version control system Git, implemented
as an Emacs package.  Magit aspires to be a complete Git porcelain.
While we cannot (yet) claim that Magit wraps and improves upon each
and every Git command, it is complete enough to allow even experienced
Git users to perform almost all of their daily version control tasks
directly from within Emacs.  While many fine Git clients exist, only
Magit and Git itself deserve to be called porcelains.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home].

# New libraries and reorganized options

Like preceding releases this release focuses on cleanup and bug fixes.

* A lot of the code that was previously located inside `magit.el` has
  been moved into several new libraries.  This should make it easier
  for users who want to contribute to Magit to find those parts that
  are actually relevant to the task at hand.

* The customization groups are now better organized.  Several new
  groups were added and options are more sensibly distributed among
  those groups and groups that already existed before.  Additionally
  some groups and options now link to the relevant documentation and
  to other relevant groups.

  Even if you have already customized Magit to your satisfaction, you
  might still want to browse the available options again.  If you do,
  then it is quite possible that you will run into something that you
  previously overlooked because the relevant option used to be buried
  among other, only marginally related, options.

  Note especially the new group `magit-essentials`.  It contains
  options that every Magit user should at least briefly think about.
  These options are also available from other groups, but they are
  additionally grouped together here to make it easier to locate the
  most important nobs you might want to turn.  Each of these options
  falls into one or more of these categories:

  * Options that affect Magit's behavior in fundamental ways.
  * Options that affect safety.
  * Options that affect performance.

Most of the other changes are bug fixes but there are also a few other
minor changes.  For information on those changes and fixes see the
release notes.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/5m0k48/magit_v210_released/).***

[home]:     https://magit.vc
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.10.0.txt
