---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.12 released"
date: 2018-03-29 20:30:00 +0100
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.12,
  consisting of 610 commits since the last feature release
  six months ago.
---

# Magit 2.12 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.12, consisting
of 610 commits since the last feature release six month ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git interface inside Emacs

Magit is a text-based Git user interface that puts an unmatched focus
on streamlining workflows. Commands are invoked using short mnemonic
key sequences that take the cursor’s position in the highly actionable
interface into account to provide context-sensitive behavior.

With Magit you can do nearly everything that you can do when using Git
on the command-line, but at greater speed and while taking advantage
of advanced features that previously seemed too daunting to use on a
daily basis. Many users will find that by using Magit they can become
more effective Git user.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home]
and [these blog posts][blogs].

# Roadmap

As mentioned in the [latest update][update] I have concentrated on
addressing as many "small" issues and feature requests as possible.
With halve the year over already I have to concentrate on the big
refactorings now.  See the release [milestones] to learn when I intend
to implement which features.

Please also see the [release notes][relnotes].  They begin with a list
of upcoming breaking changes.

I am going to take care of the stickers over the next two weeks.

# New in 2.12

## New and updated commands

This release adds many new commands: `magit-blame-reverse`,
`magit-branch-checkout`, `magit-branch-or-checkout`,
`magit-branch-pull-request`, `magit-branch-shelve`,
`magit-branch-unshelve`, `magit-browse-pull-request`,
`magit-checkout-pull-request`, `magit-cherry-donate`,
`magit-cherry-harvest`, `magit-cherry-spinoff`,
`magit-cherry-spinout`, `magit-commit-reshelve`,
`magit-diff-unmerged`, `magit-diff-visit-file-other-window`,
`magit-dired-log`, `magit-merge-absorb`, `magit-merge-into`,
`magit-merge-squash`, `magit-next-line`, `magit-patch-apply-popup`,
`magit-patch-apply`, `magit-patch-save`, `magit-previous-line`,
`magit-rebase-remove-commit`, `magit-remote-prune-refspec`,
`magit-remote-prune`, `magit-reshelve-since`,
`magit-stash-branch-here`, `magit-worktree-popup` and `magit`.

Among these I think the following are most noteworthy:

* The commands `magit-checkout-pull-request` and
  `magit-branch-pull-request` (on <i>b y</i> and <i>b Y</i>) read a
  pull request in the minibuffer and then create a local branch for
  that.  That branch is properly configured, including the upstream
  and push-remote.  This makes it a breeze to review pull requests
  directly in Magit.  For more information see the [Ghub
  announcement][ghub].
  
* After performing a merge the commands `magit-merge-into` and
  `magit-merge-absorb` (on <i>m i</i> and <i>m a</i>) also delete the
  merged branch.  If the branch was created using one of the
  pull-request commands mentioned above, then they also offer to
  delete the respective remote.  The existing, and more generic,
  `magit-branch-delete` command learned to do that too.
  
* Moving commits between branches can now be done in one step using
  the commands `magit-cherry-donate`, `magit-cherry-harvest`,
  `magit-cherry-spinout` and `magit-cherry-spinoff`.  They are
  available from the cherry popup on <i>A</i>.  These commands are
  similar to the existing `magit-branch-spinoff`, which learned to
  move only a single commit to a new branch.
  
* It is now possible to blame in reverse using the new command
  `magit-blame-reverse`, which is available from the blame popup when
  that makes sense.

* Most module commands now default to act on the selected modules or
  if no modules are selected the current module, if any.  Otherwise
  they fall back to read a single module from the user.  Previously
  some of these commands acted on all modules and it was not possible
  to perform the respective actions on a subset of modules.  Acting
  on all suitable modules is still possible using a prefix argument.
  Many arguments have been added to the module popup.

  Note that the terminology about modules as used by Git is ambiguous
  and that Magit now departs from that.  Magit avoids the term
  "initialized" and instead uses the term "populated" to refer to a
  module whose working directory exists.  The names of commands have
  been adjusted accordingly.  For example, unlike `git submodule
  init`, which does *not* actually "initialize" a module,
  `magit-submodule-popuplate` does "populate" a module (using `git
  submodule update --init`).

* When the dispatch popup is invoked in non-Magit buffers, then
  certain actions that cannot be used there are no longer shown.  On
  the other hand some actions that can only be used in file-visiting
  buffers are now shown when this popup is invoked from such a buffer.

* Worktree commands are now available from a new popup on <i>%</i>.

This is probably a good time to remind you that you can view the
documentation for a popup action directly from the popup.  From a
popup, if <i>x</i> would invoke a command, then <i>? x</i> shows its
documentation instead.  This also works for arguments; use e.g. <i>? -
x</i> instead of <i>- x</i>.  By the way, locating the documentation
like this has been improved a lot in this release.  Also if you don't
know about <i>C-t</i> yet, then check that out too.

* The commands `magit-remote-remove` and `magit-branch-delete` now
  unset the relevant push-remote related variables, which Git fails to
  do, unlike for other variable affected by the removal of a remote or
  branch. Likewise the command `magit-remote-rename` now renames such
  variables.

* Depending on the value of the new `magit-branch-rename-push-target`
  option the command `magit-branch-rename` may now also preserve the
  local branch's push-remote or even rename the push branch on the
  remote.  The default is to do both.

The most important change regarding many existing and new commands
probably is the addition of the new `magit-dwim-selection` option.
Disagreements about whether certain commands should act on the thing
at point (with or without confirmation) or only use that as the
default while letting the user choose something else instead has been
a source of frustration for a long time.  This new option hopefully
puts an end to that.  Please see the [documentation][dwim-selection]
for more information.

## Improvements to core concepts

The [documentation][concepts] regarding completion, confirmation, the
selection, and the hunk-internal region was significantly extended.
It might be worth reading that even if you have done so before because
this release makes some big changes here, including:

* For a long time Magit has supported selecting two or more sibling
  sections using the region and then acting on that selection instead
  of only on the current section.  Single-section selections were not
  supported and a region that did not span multiple siblings was not
  visualized as a selection.  Now that is supported.

  Not every section-aware command was adjusted to take single-section
  selections into account because in many cases that would have led to
  undesired changes in behavior.

* When there is a valid selection based on the region, then the region
  itself was never visualized.  Now it is, but only if it stays within
  a single line.

* The section visibility is now being cached for all sections.
  Previously this was only done for some sections.  When a section
  disappeared and later appeared again, then it went back to its
  initial visibility.  The option `magit-section-cache-visibility` can
  be used to restrict the cache to certain sections again

* The section visibility cache can now also remember that a section
  should be expanded instead of being hidden when the latter is the
  default and the section reappears.  Previously only the opposite
  was possible.

* For `magit-status-mode` and `magit-refs-mode` buffers the visibility
  cache now persists when killing the buffer.

## Other changes

* Some refs that are being displayed in logs are now being compressed
  to save space while providing more information.  That might be
  confusing at first, but luckily it is [documented][merged-refs].

This release also adds many new options and features, and fixes many
bugs.  I am particularly happy that the backlog is almost gone now.

The [release notes][relnotes] list many changes not mentioned above.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/884q3u/magit_v212_released/).***

[blogs]:          https://emacsair.me/2017/09/01/campaign-articles
[concepts]:       https://docs.magit.vc/magit/Interface-Concepts.html
[dwim-selection]: https://docs.magit.vc/magit/Completion-and-Confirmation.html
[ghub]:           https://emacsair.me/2018/03/20/ghub-2.0
[home]:           https://magit.vc
[merged-refs]:    https://docs.magit.vc/magit/Log-Buffer.html
[milestones]:     https://github.com/magit/magit/milestones?direction=asc&sort=due_date&state=open
[relnotes]:       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.12.0.txt
[update]:         https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1681258897/its-magit-the-magical-git-client/posts/2124955
