---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.13 released"
date: 2018-06-02 00:00:00 -0500
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.13,
  consisting of 166 commits since the last feature release
  two months ago.
---

# Magit 2.13 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.13, consisting
of 166 commits since the last feature release two month ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git interface inside Emacs

Magit is a text-based Git user interface that puts an unmatched focus
on streamlining workflows. Commands are invoked using short mnemonic
key sequences that take the cursor’s position in the highly actionable
interface into account to provide context-sensitive behavior.

With Magit you can do nearly everything that you can do when using Git
on the command-line, but at greater speed and while taking advantage
of advanced features that previously seemed too daunting to use on a
daily basis. Many users will find that by using Magit they can become
more effective Git user.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home]
and [these blog posts][blogs].

# Last release to support Emacs 24.4 and Git 1.9.4

As announced earlier older Emacs and Git versions won't be supported
much longer.  This is the last Magit release to support Emacs 24.4 and
Git 1.9.4.  Going forward at least Emacs 25.1 and Git 2.4 are required.

Additionally many functions and variables that have been declared
obsolete for a while now are going to be removed after this release.

All of these changes will happen on `master`, the development branch.
Note that the snapshot packages on Melpa are built from that branch.
If you cannot update Emacs and/or Git now, then you should pin Magit
to Melpa-Stable to stick with this release (and bugfix releases) for
the time being.

# A note about key bindings

Many changes in this release are related to file-visiting buffers in
one way or another.  The next release will also focus on files and the
buffers visiting them.

Because there aren't yet any Magit-specific conventions to build on
and because the newly added functionality in many cases is still in
its early stages and subject to changed, some of the new commands
mentioned below do not have a default key binding yet, or else their
binding might change in the near future.

# Improved blaming support

Augmenting a file- or blob-visiting buffer with blame information was
completely rewritten, making the implementation more robust and adding
many new features.

* As before, blame commands (and other file-related commands) can be
  invoked from the file popup, which is available on `C-c M-g` in
  file-visiting buffers, if `global-magit-file-mode` is enabled.
  What changed is that this mode is now enabled by default.
  
* In addition to the two blame types supported by the Git porcelain,
  "What commit added this line?" and (the only marginally useful)
  "What is the last commit that still has this line?", Magit now also
  provides a third type, "What commit removes this line?".  The latter
  two types are only available in blob-visiting buffers, but not in
  buffers that visit a file in the working tree.
  
* By default blaming still temporarily makes the buffer read-only, but
  it is now possible to turn off `read-only-mode`, if so desired.  The
  new option `magit-blame-read-only` controls whether blaming turns on
  `read-only-mode` initially.  The new command `magit-blame-echo`
  provides another way to blame without turning on `read-only-mode`,
  regardless of the value of `magit-blame-read-only` mode.
  
* When the current buffer contains blame information, the new commands
  `magit-blame-visit-file` and `magit-blame-visit-other-file` visit
  blobs related to the current chunk.  There are no default bindings
  for these commands yet.
  
* Blame information can now be displayed using several different
  "styles".  Use `c` to cycle through the currently defined styles
  and edit `magit-blame-styles` to modify existing styles and add
  more styles.

# Other changes

* The new command `magit-log-trace-definition`, which is available
  from the file popup, can be used to show a log with diffs for the
  definition at point.  Likewise `magit-diff-trace-definition` can be
  used to do the same from within a diff, where `C-c C-t` is bound to
  it.

* The new command `magit-edit-line-commit`, which is available from
  the file popup (on `e`), can be used to edit the commit that added
  the current line.  Likewise `magit-diff-edit-hunk-commit` can be
  used to do the same from within a diff, where `C-c C-e` is bound to
  it.  The editing is usually done using an interactive rebase that
  stops at the appropriate commit.
  
* These last two commands are disabled by default because one might
  easily end up editing an already published commit.  Additionally
  the new option `magit-published-branches` provides a new safety-net.
  If you try to modify a commit that has been pushed to one of these
  branches already, then you are now being asked whether you really
  want to do that.  Beside these new commands, amend and rebase
  commands may also ask for confirmation, but do not rely on this
  additional safety-net exclusively, there are edge-cases that are
  ambiguous and are not always handled as you might have expected.
  
This release also contains other minor improvements, bug fixes, typo
fixes, and documentation fixes; some of which are mentioned in the
[release notes][relnotes].

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/8o54fs/magit_v213_released).***

[blogs]:          https://emacsair.me/2017/09/01/campaign-articles
[home]:           https://magit.vc
[relnotes]:       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.13.0.txt
