---
layout: default
title: "Magit 2.90 released"
date: 2018-11-08 16:20:00 +0100
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.90,
  consisting of 395 commits since the last feature release
  five months ago.
---

# Magit 2.90 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 2.90, consisting
of 395 commits since the last feature release five month ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git interface inside Emacs

Magit is a text-based Git user interface that puts an unmatched focus
on streamlining workflows. Commands are invoked using short mnemonic
key sequences that take the cursor’s position in the highly actionable
interface into account to provide context-sensitive behavior.

With Magit you can do nearly everything that you can do when using Git
on the command-line, but at greater speed and while taking advantage
of advanced features that previously seemed too daunting to use on a
daily basis. Many users will find that by using Magit they can become
more effective Git user.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home]
and [these blog posts][blogs].

# Breaking changes

There are other breaking changes beside those mentioned here.  See the
[release notes][relnotes].

## Last release to support Emacs 25 and Git 2.0

As announced earlier older Emacs and Git versions won't be supported
much longer.  This is the last Magit release to support Emacs 25 and
Git 2.0, i.e. this release drops support for Emacs 24.4 and Git 1.9.
Soon Emacs 26.1 is going to be required.  Support for older Git
releases will also be dropped but it isn't certain yet when that will
happen and what the new minimal version will be.

## Renamed many commands

Many commands were renamed, making their names longer.  The old names
are defined as aliases for now.  This is part one of a two part
change.  In this release we rename, for example, `magit-tag` to
`magit-tag-create` and in a later release `magit-tag-popup` is going
to be renamed to `magit-tag`.

# Improvements to work-in-progress refs

A new mode `magit-wip-mode` was added, which enables automatic
committing to work-in-progress refs whenever that makes sense.

Previously multiple `magit-wip-*` modes had to be enabled to
accomplish the same.  These modes still exist (the new mode is even
implemented on top of them) but their explicit use by the user is
discouraged now.

Originally I also planned to change how the wip refs are updated by
default when a new commit is created on the current branch, but for
now the new behavior has to be opted in using the new option
`magit-wip-merge-branch`.
  
By default the wip refs are reset to point at the same commit as the
current branch after a new commit is created on the current branch.
When you set `magit-wip-merge-branch` to a non-nil value, then the
current branch is instead merged into the wip refs.

The newly added approach should make it easier to reason about how the
wip refs relate to their branches, but that is only partially true,
which is why it isn't the default yet.  If the user rewrites history a
lot, e.g. by repeatedly amending, then the commit graph can get really
complicated.  Also merging the real branch into the wip refs instead
of resetting the latter means that wip commits are never garbage
collected.  Both complications make additional tooling necessary
before the new approach can become the default.
  
Two new commands `magit-wip-log-index` and `magit-wip-log-worktree`
were added.
  
# Specifying the major-mode used for commit messages

It is now possible to specify the major-mode used to edit commit
messages on a per-repository basis.  The same major-mode is also
used to prettify commit messages when displaying existing commit
messages in `magit-revision-mode` buffers.

To set the major-mode to be used for commit messages add an entry to
the appropriate `.dir-locals.el` file using `git-commit-mode` as the
"major-mode", setting the variable `git-commit-major-mode`.  This
usually wouldn't work, but Magit contains code to make it work
eventhough `git-commit-mode` isn't actually a major-mode.

The `git-commit-mode` key can also be used to set other variables in
the buffers used to *edit* commit messages.  But this doesn't have an
effect in the temporary buffers used to fontify existing commit
messages before inserting them into revision buffers.

If `$GIT_WORK_TREE/.git` is a file, then
`$GIT_WORK_TREE/.dir-locals.el` would normally not apply when editing
a file inside `$GIT_DIR`, such as the file that is being edited to
write commit messages.  But Magit explicitly uses the `.dir-locals.el`
from the working tree unless `$GIT_DIR/.dir-locals.el` exists, because
otherwise it would not be possible to distribute such a file in a way
that would cause it to be used by all contributors.

A new mode `git-commit-elisp-text-mode` was added.  It is intended to
be used as the major-mode for commit messages for Elisp projects.  It
derives from `text-mode` and additionally highlights `` `symbols'``
and `"strings"`.  Of course you could also use `text-mode` (the
default), `markdown-mode` or `org-mode`.

Here's an example:

```lisp
((git-commit-mode
  (git-commit-major-mode . git-commit-elisp-text-mode)))
```
  
# Other changes

This release also contains many other changes and bug fixes, which are
listed in the [release notes][relnotes].  Considering how long it took,
this release doesn't contain that many truely exciting changes because
most of those changes haven't landed on the `master` branch yet, but
that is about to change:

# Roadmap

* Next week I plan to create an initial release of the Forge package.
  Some of the features provided by that package exist in an early form
  in Magit itself.  Those early implementations will be removed and
  users who want those features (and more) will have to install Forge.
  
* After that I will release the Transient package and merge Magit's
  `transient` branch into `master`.
  
* After doing the above it is time to release Magit 2.91.0.

* At the beginning of December or hopefully a bit earlier Magit will
  start to use the `libgit` module.  Contrary to the initial plan this
  most likely won't be a hard dependency, which means I'll have to
  maintain two implementations of many functions.

* Then I will release `git-handler.el` and start using that in Magit.

* After doing the above it is time to release Magit 2.92.0.

The two biggest planned changes that likely won't make it before the
end of the year are improvements to diffing and logging.  Well, I will
try to implement some of the planned changes to diffing by then, but
logging won't make the cut, that I am unfortainly certain off.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/9vazt0/magit_v290_released).***

[blogs]:          https://emacsair.me/2017/09/01/campaign-articles
[home]:           https://magit.vc
[relnotes]:       https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/magit/master/Documentation/RelNotes/2.90.0.org
