---
layout: blog
title: "Transient 0.2 released"
date: 2020-02-26 17:15:00 +0100
categories: [transient, magit]
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Transient version 0.2,
  consisting of 151 commits since the last feature release a
  year ago.
---

# Transient 0.2 released

I am excited to announce the release of Transient version 0.2,
consisting of 151 commits since the [first release a year ago][v1].
The release notes can be found [here][relnotes] (and are considered
recommended reading).

The switch from Magit-Popup to Transient worked out pretty well.  As
the maintainer of Magit I find it much more pleasant to work with the
new library and it has become much easier to deal with user requests
for new infix arguments and suffix commands.  That is no surprise as
these were important goals that guided the improved design.  I am also
quite satisfied and also a little proud that Transient survived this
past year without the need for any major architectural changes.

End-users also seem to take it well.  Initially some users reported
that they missed certain features they were used to from Magit-Popup.
No surprise here either; I was expecting these reports.  I had planned
to permanently drop these features, but after enough users had voiced
there concerns I ultimately changed my mind.  (TL;DR `(setq
transient-enable-popup-navigation t)` restores a lot of features.)

It is a little disappointing that many users keep on asking about
things that are addressed by the [previous announcement][v1] and the
[manual][manual].  But that's the fate of authors of
documentation—some users just ignore it, while [see below].

A few authors have begun to use Transient in [their own
packages][melpa], but not many, which was to be expected too.  I was
not exactly promoting it and am not unhappy about the slow adaption
because I am in fact aware that the developer part of the manual isn't
that great.  IMO it's not bad per se, but it is [highly
technical][diagram] and having an additional tutorial would certainly
help.  (Not least because this was holding back the next Magit release
as well.)

Writing such a tutorial will take some time and that's why it took me
so long to create this release, I wanted to have the tutorial ready
first.  But it doesn't look like I can find the time and motivation to
do that any time soon, so I am releasing now anyway.

Until I have written a proper tutorial authors will have to rely on
the manual and the numerous examples inside Magit's code base.  I have
created a [placeholder][tutorial], please feel free to link to your
own documentation from there.

{% markdown donate-tiny.md %}

[diagram]:  https://magit.vc/manual/transient/Comparison-With-Prefix-Keys-and-Prefix-Arguments.html#Transients
[manual]:   https://magit.vc/manual/transient
[melpa]:    http://www.melpa.org/#/transient
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/transient/master/docs/CHANGELOG
[tutorial]: https://github.com/magit/transient/wiki/Tutorial
[v1]:       https://emacsair.me/2019/02/14/transient-0.1
