---
layout: default
title: "Transient 0.3 released"
date: 2021-02-21 23:59:50 +0100
categories: [transient, magit]
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Transient version 0.3,
  consisting of 87 commits since the last release a year ago.
---

# Transient 0.3 released

I am excited to announce the release of [Transient][repo] version 0.3,
consisting of 87 commits since the [second release a year ago][v2].
The release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

This release adds many small convenience features targeted at authors
of transient commands.  For a list of those features, please see the
release notes.  Unfortunately I still have not written a tutorial or
made the manual easier to digest, but those things are still on my
todo list.

End users should for the most part not notice any differences.
`M-p` and `M-n` can no longer be used to move through the history of a
transient; and either `C-M-p` and `C-M-n`, or `C-x p` and `C-x n` have
to be used instead.  This was done to to free all `M-<char>` for use
by individual transients.

This is the first release that is published on GNU Elpa.  Just as I
was getting ready for this release, the topic of adding `transient` to
Emacs itself [came up][core] on emacs-devel.  I am flattered by this
prospect and would love to see `transient` being used by more
packages, and even core packages.

Obviously I still have to improve the documentation before that can
happen.  Aside from that some bad interactions with the minibuffer
have to be addressed and `where-is` has to be taught how to look
inside transients.

{% markdown donate-tiny.md %}

[core]:     https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2021-02/msg01384.html
[relnotes]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/magit/transient/master/docs/CHANGELOG
[repo]:     https://github.com/magit/transient
[v2]:       https://emacsair.me/2020/02/26/transient-0.2
