---
layout: default
title: "Anonymous function literals for Emacs-Lisp"
date: 2021-01-28 00:20:00 +0100
categories: [emacs]
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the first release of Llama, a package
  that implements anonymous function literals for Emacs-Lisp without
  relying on a C patch to Emacs or adding an additional pair of
  parentheses.
---

## Llama – Compact syntax for short lambdas

I am excited to announce the first release of [Llama], a package that
implements ~~anonymous function literals for Emacs-Lisp~~ compact
syntax for short `lambda`s, without relying on a C patch to Emacs or
adding an additional pair of parentheses.

Instead of:

<pre>
    (lambda (a _ c &rest d)
      (foo a (bar c) d))
</pre>

you can use the `##` *lisp macro* and write:

<pre>
    (##foo % (bar %3) %*)
</pre>

which expands to:

<pre>
    (lambda (% _%2 %3 &rest %*)
      (foo % (bar %3) %*))
</pre>

Note that there really does not have to be any whitespace between `##`
and `foo`, and did I mention that the C parts of Emacs remain untouched?!

**Update:** I have come up with a second syntax, which does not put
anything *before* the opening parenthesis and looks like `(l'foo %)`.
Unlike with my original `llama` idea I am no longer suggesting making
it look like some character(s) appear before the paren using font-lock
or similar trickery (see below).  If you so desire, then you could
however use `prettify-symbols-mode` to display it as e.g. `(ƒ'foo
%)`.  This approach is implemented in [`l`][l].

## The fine print

Unfortunately compact syntax for short `lambda`s won't be added to
Emacs anytime soon.  IMO the arguments as to why we would like to have
that has been layed out convincingly but the proposal has been
rejected anyway.

Several packages exist that implement anonymous function literals,
but until now they all either are waiting for a patch to the C part
be merged into Emacs, or they depart too far from the ideal syntax.

In a stroke of luck I discovered a loophole that allows us to have
almost the syntax that we want without having to convince anyone.

<pre>
    $(foo %)        is what I would have used if it were up to me.
    #(foo %)        works just as well for me.
    ##(foo %)       is similar enough to that.
    (##foo %)       is the loophole that I discovered.
</pre>

Even though there is no space between the second `#` and `foo`, this
last form is read as a list with three arguments `(## foo %)` and it
is also indented the way we want!

<pre>
    (##foo %
           bar)
</pre>

This is good enough for me, but with a bit of font-lock trickery,
we can even get it to be display like this:

<pre>
    ##(foo %
           bar)
</pre>

This is completely optional and you have to opt-in by enabling
`llama-mode` (or the global variant `global-llama-mode`).

An unfortunate edge-case exists that you have to be aware off; if
no argument is placed on the same line as the function, then Emacs
does not indent as we would want it too:

<pre>
    (##foo                                         ##(foo
     bar)        which llama-mode displays as       bar)
</pre>

I recommend that in this case you simply write this instead:

<pre>
    (## foo                                        ##( foo
        bar)     which llama-mode displays as          bar)
</pre>

It is my hope that this package helps to eventually get similar
syntax into Emacs itself, by demonstrating that this is useful and
that people want to use it.

Prior art
---------

- `#(foo %)` [https://github.com/abo-abo/short-lambda](https://github.com/abo-abo/short-lambda)
  with a patch to the C part of Emacs
- `($ (foo %))`   [https://github.com/cadadr/elisp/blob/devel/dollar.el](https://github.com/cadadr/elisp/blob/devel/dollar.el)
- `(fn (foo <>))` [https://github.com/troyp/fn.el](https://github.com/troyp/fn.el)

Past discussions
----------------

In 2015 Oleh Krehel (@abo-abo) proposed his [Clojure-like syntactic
sugar for an anonymous function literal][2015] on `emacs-devel`.  In
2020 his implementation and a few others [were discussed][2020] on
the mailing list again, as part of a (much) bigger discussion about
`dash.el` and `s.el`.  The topic also occasionally comes up on
r/emacs.

I think Oleh and others made a good case arguing for the introduction
of this new syntax but it wasn't enough to overcome the resistance and
I am not sure I can add much, except for an implementation that does
not require upfront approval.

Admittedly I have a hard time even just explaining why we want this
new syntax; I find it so obviously desirable.  I can also understand
that from a certain stylistic point of view the new syntax is
undesirable; I just couldn't accept that this should keep me from
writing pulp fiction and so I successfully went looking for a
workaround.

For extended context you might also want to read the original
discussion mentioned above.

There's hope
------------

Many people seem to dislike having to use the traditional `lambda`
syntax *in certain cases*, as is brought to light by the popularity
of `dash`'s anaphoric variants of most of its functions that take a
function as argument.

Oleh disliked the anaphoric variants and that is a major reason why
he implemented the new syntax; he wanted to give authors a better,
*universal* alternative.  (I want that too, but also I really like
the new syntax.)

Authors cannot be forced to use the `lambda` syntax, many authors do
whatever is necessary to get the short-hand syntax, regardless of
whether it has the blessing of the Emacs maintainers.

One argument that was presented against the new syntax was "think of
the children", the idea being that new non-programmer users will get
very confused by the new syntax.  While this is likely to happen, we
also have backquote syntax and locating the documentation about that
is equally challenging.

The success of `dash` made it possible to have things like `if-let*`
and `thread-first` in Emacs, but it failed to bring about anonymous
function literals.

As mentioned before, it is my hope that `llama` helps to eventually
get similar syntax into Emacs itself, by demonstrating that this is
useful and that people want to use it.

[Llama]: https://git.sr.ht/~tarsius/llama
[l]:     https://git.sr.ht/~tarsius/l
[2015]:  https://yhetil.org/emacs-devel/CAA01p3pDFRd1KpuUSUUWb1ZO4THH_Fhez53UOhKwHoMW5bdoqQ@mail.gmail.com
[2020]:  https://yhetil.org/emacs-devel/873686bbl5.fsf@russet.org.uk
