---
layout: default
title: "Magit 3.2 released"
date: 2021-08-01 12:20:00 +0200
categories: magit
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 3.2,
  consisting of 84 commits since the last feature release
  one month ago.
---

# Magit 3.2 released

I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 3.2, consisting
of 84 commits since the last feature release one month ago.  The
release notes can be found [here][relnotes].

# It's Magit!  A Git interface inside Emacs

Magit is a text-based Git user interface that puts an unmatched focus
on streamlining workflows. Commands are invoked using short mnemonic
key sequences that take the cursor’s position in the highly actionable
interface into account to provide context-sensitive behavior.

With Magit you can do nearly everything that you can do when using Git
on the command-line, but at greater speed and while taking advantage
of advanced features that previously seemed too daunting to use on a
daily basis. Many users will find that by using Magit they can become
more effective Git user.

For more information about Magit, see [https://magit.vc][home]
and [these blog posts][campain-articles].

# Ding!

Right on schedule another Magit release.  It's almost a habit now. :)

# What changed?

- The default of `magit-bury-buffer-function` was changed to
  `magit-mode-quit-window`.  #4412

- Added new option `magit-remote-git-executable` alongside the existing
  `magit-git-executable`.  Previously the latter was used for local and
  remote `git` processes alike, now the former specifies the executable
  that is used when Tramp is involved.  Using a single variable was
  problematic because we had to use an absolute path on Windows for
  performance reasons but that path was almost certainly wrong when
  using Tramp.  #4447

- We now use an absolute path for `magit-git-executable` on macOS as
  well because at least for some macOS users using just the name of
  the executable performs horribly.  #4447

- The section showing openpgp output in the revision buffer is now
  collapsible and starts out collapsed for good signatures or when the
  certificate is missing.  This hopefully makes it more appealing to
  enable `--show-signature` (and maybe even encourages some authors to
  start signing commits).  1e08ac6fd

- A mode change or rename can now be applied (un-/staged etc.) without
  also applying edits to the same file and vice-versa.  #4439

- Many commands that act on (or default to) the commit at point now
  pick that up in a few more places; when the string at point is a
  known hash, on a blame chunk, and on a hunk or file inside a log.
  d8d3e4813, 40ad7a25c, 402112c6e

Other changes as well as bug fixes are listed in the full [release
notes][relnotes].

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/ovpufb)***
***and [Github](https://github.com/magit/magit/discussions/4459).***

{% markdown donate-tiny.md %}

[campain-articles]: https://emacsair.me/2017/09/01/campaign-articles
[home]:             https://magit.vc
[relnotes]:         https://github.com/magit/magit/blob/master/Documentation/RelNotes/3.2.0.org
