---
layout: default
title: "Transient 0.5 released"
date: 2023-11-28 16:30:00 +0100
categories: [transient, magit]
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Transient version 0.5,
  consisting of 134 commits since the last release six months ago.
---

# Transient 0.5 released

I am happy to announce another [Transient](https://github.com/magit/transient)
release!  The focus over the last six months was on implementing features that
make the lives easier of people who create transient commands; but there are
also are a few changes that users will notice.

- Some suffix commands exit the transient from which they were
  invoked, while others don't (allowing the user to invoke another
  suffix without first having to enter the transient again).

  Until now it wasn't possible to tell which category any given suffix
  falls into, at least not by default.  Now the key binding of each
  suffix is colorized to indicate its transient behavior.  Red means
  that the suffix exits the transient, and blue means that it does
  not.  Keys for suffixes that currently cannot be invoked are gray.

  Likewise, the thin line, that is drawn between the transient popup
  buffer and the minibuffer, is used to indicate what happens, if you
  invoke a command that is not a suffix.  Most prefixes do not allow
  non-suffixes to be invoked, so this line usually is gray.  c8a9ac51

- Many faces have also been improved.  This involves changing which
  built-in faces they inherit from, some explicit changes to their
  appearance, and semantic clarifications.  Of course your mileage may
  vary — it's possible that some face just happened to look right with
  your chosen theme, but now it has to be themed to achieve that
  again.  47d3f01d 71d16d86 et al.

- Added a new face, `transient-delimiter`, which is used for parentheses
  around values and the pipe character used to separate possible values
  from each other.  567b5d54

- Added a new command `transient-toggle-level-limit`, bound to `C-x a`,
  which temporarily shows all suffix commands a transient has to
  offer.  This makes it possible to occasionally use more obscure
  commands and arguments, without having to always display them.
  For more information see [Enabling and Disabling Suffixes](https://docs.magit.vc/transient/Enabling-and-Disabling-Suffixes.html).
  #243

I've also decided to finally drop support for Emacs 25, and hope that decision
doesn't proof too controversial.  The last Emacs 25 release (25.3) came out in
2017; over six years ago.  The current Emacs version is 29.1; that's four major
releases since 25.1.

## Interlude

Please remember that I rely on donations to make a living, and if you can,
support my work (and encourage others to do the same). — Thank you!

{% include donate-tiny.md %}

## Improvements for transient authors

The changes described below, only directly affect package authors and
users who implement their own transients.  If that does not describe
you, then all you have to know is that many features were fine-tuned
and otherwise improved, opening up some new use-cases and making some
things easier to implement.  This will hopefully lead to improvements
in your favorite transient-using packages in the coming months.

- It sometimes makes sense to bind multiple keys to the same suffix
  command, e.g., because they behave differently based on the suffix
  description, or some other slot that can be set per binding.
  Previously these bindings shared a visibility level; how this can
  be set individually.  #153

- While functions are run, which format strings to be inserted into the
  transient buffer or to determine whether other aspects of a suffix,
  that transient buffer no longer is the current buffer.  Instead the
  buffer in which the prefix and its suffixes operate, is the current
  buffer.  This affects functions such as `transient-format-description`
  and those found in predicate slots such as `if`.  In contexts where
  the transient buffer is needed but the other buffer happens to be
  current, the new macro `transient-with-shadowed-buffer` can be used
  to temporarily change that.

- The new suffix slots `face` and `inapt-face` can be used to specify how
  a suffix looks, which in simple cases is more convenient than using
  a function as `description` and adding the face there.  The values of
  these slots should be faces or functions that returns a face.  The
  default for `inapt-face` is `transient-inapt-suffix`, but in some cases
  it is undesirable to apply this face to the whole description, so
  this can be overridden by setting this slot to `nil` for individual
  suffixes.  The default for `face` is `nil`.  c2a75880 8e15a29b 71399d21

- Added new variables `transient--pending-suffix` and
  `transient--pending-group`, which are bound while a suffix/group is
  being inserted.  These are mostly intended for internal purposes,
  but in some rare complex cases package authors might need them too.
  0717589a 70e8dc80

- Sometimes it is useful to display some information in the transient
  buffer, which is not associated with a suffix command.  The new
  class `transient-information` can be used for that purpose.  Children
  that use this class are very similar to regular suffixes, the lack of
  a command binding being nearly the only difference.  #226

  ```
  (transient-define-prefix demo ()
    [(:info "static" :face shadow)
     (:info (lambda () (format "Major-mode: %s" major-mode)))
     ("x" transient-echo-arguments)])
  ```

- Instead of a list of choices, the value of a suffix's `choices` slot
  can now be a function that returns such a list.  #212

- Per-suffix functions that format its description (specified using the
  `descripton` slot) can now optionally take one instead of zero argument,
  the respective suffix object.  09be367b

- Added a new command `transient-echo-arguments` intended for use in
  examples and bug reports, when a prefix must bind some command, but it
  does not really matter which.  Using this command is less verbose than
  having to implement a dummy every time, and it comes with some goodies.
  I.e., it reports information about the prefix from which it was invoked.
  faa3d09d

- When a command was defined using `transient-define-suffix` and an alias
  for that command was created using `defalias`, then the alias had no
  access to the associated suffix object.  Now it does, which makes it
  possible to bind the same command multiple times in a prefix, and make
  it behave differently depending on the symbol-name that was used to
  invoke it.  f43aee1a

- The values of a prefix's `transient-suffix` and `transient-non-suffix`
  slots should now be a boolean.  The value of the `transient-suffix`
  slot has to be handled differently for different types of suffixes.
  I.e., infix arguments must ignore it, and sub-prefixes must honor
  it but to do so they must use a different pre-command.  Previously
  booleans were not supported and the previously recommended values,
  `transient--do-stay` and `transient--do-exit` are still supported (but
  they are "corrected" for sub-prefixes).  For the `transient` slot the
  use of booleans was always allowed and recommended.  8098d175

- For sub-prefixes a value of `t` for the `transient-suffix` slot of the
  parent prefix now means that suffixes, which exit the sub-prefix,
  return to the parent prefix, instead of exiting that as well.
  784887b7 5ad5b627

- In addition to booleans and pre-commands, the values of the
  `transient-suffix`, `transient-non-suffix` and `transient` slots
  may now also be pre-command "shorthands", e.g., use `leave` instead
  of `transient--do-leave` (which in some cases is a good value for
  `transient-non-suffix`). 9617b6c7

- `transient--do-replace` now behaves as documented and implied by its
  name.  Use the new `transient--do-stack` if you want to return to the
  outer prefix.  94661e0c

- Added a new prefix slot `transient-switch-frame`, which allows
  specifying the transient behavior of `switch-frame` per prefix and
  independently of the transient behavior of other non-suffixes
  (specified using the `transient-non-suffix` slot).  609dabfd

- Added a new function `transient-prefix-object` to allow package
  authors to avoid the following unfortunate complication.

  While a transient is being setup or refreshed (which involves
  preparing its suffixes) the variable `transient--prefix` can be
  used to access the prefix object.  Thus this is what has to be
  used in suffix methods such as `transient-format-description`,
  and in object-specific functions that are stored in suffix slots
  such as `description`.  When a suffix command is invoked (i.e.,
  in its `interactive` form and function body) then the variable
  `transient-current-prefix` has to be used instead.

  Two distinct variables are needed, because any prefix may itself
  be used as a suffix of another prefix, and such sub-prefixes have
  to be able to tell themselves apart from the prefix they were
  invoked from.  Regular suffix commands, which are not prefixes, do
  not have to concern themselves with this distinction, so they can
  use this function instead.  In the context of a plain suffix, it
  always returns the value of the appropriate variable.
  37307c1b

This release also contains bug fixes, various documentation updates,
and a larger amount of code clean-ups than usual.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/185z1pf)***
***and [Github](https://github.com/magit/transient/discussions/265).***
