---
layout: default
categories: [magit forge]
date: 2024-08-14 15:15:00 +0200
title: "Forge 0.4.0 and 0.4.1 released"
version: 0.4
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the Forge releases v0.4.0, consisting of
  699 commits since the last release two years ago, and v0.4.1, just
  six days later.
---
[rel-reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/1es1gqk
[rel-github]: https://github.com/magit/forge/discussions/692

# Forge 0.4.0 and 0.4.1 released

I am excited to finally announce the release of Forge version 0.4.0,
consisting of 699 commits since the last release two years ago.  It
was actually released six days ago, at the same time as Magit and
nine other packages, which all had to be released at the same time.

To avoid getting myself into a similar situation again, I intend to
release much more frequently going forward.  So it is with delight,
that I can report, that today I have already released version 0.4.1.

These releases are a significant step forward.

It is now easier to get started.  The documentation about the initial
setup should be much easier to follow now and the command used to
track additional repositories, now better guides the user through the
process and links to relevant documentation when necessary.  Topic
filtering took a huge leap forward and changing details about a topic
got a lot more convenient as well.

If you previously hesitated to give Forge a try, or got stuck during
initial setup, then now is a good time to jump in (again).  Or if you
have already been using Forge before, you might find that after these
releases, you will have to fall back to the web interfaces less and
less frequently.  That was certainly been the case for myself.

# What is Forge?

[Forge] allows you to work with [Git] "[forges]", currently Github and
Gitlab, from the comfort of [Magit] and [Emacs].

Forge fetches issues, pull-requests and other data using the forge's
API and stores the retrieved information in a local database.
Additionally it fetches pull-request references using Git.  You can
then work with these topics using an interface that is fully
integrated in Magit.  You can, for example, open new topics, comment
on existing topics, and merge pull-requests right from within your
Editor.

# I need your support

Please note that the money users pay me for my work on Magit, Forge,
Transient and all my other Emacs projects, is my only source of income,
and that as a result I am notorious short on funds.  So any support you
can give really makes a difference and is very much apprechiated.

Many users appear to apprechiate Magit's innovative user experience
and that third-party packages can now provide a similar experience
using my Transient library.
([Here](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41234636) you find just
the latest discussion, from yesterday, where that sentiment is
expressed.)

Implementing and refining that interface, and making it possible for
others to use it in their own packages, took me many years, but
unfortunately I made very little money during all that time.
Hopefully that will improve going forward.  My goal is to find a
thousand users who are willing to support my work financially.  Thanks
for considering to be part of that!

{%include donate-main.md %}

# Changes in 0.4.0

- This release pays off a large amount of technical debt.  Many of the changes
  and additions below were only possible thanks to that effort, as are upcoming
  additions.

- Which topics are displayed in the current buffer can now be changed, using
  the new prefix command `forge-topics-menu`, available on `N m f`.  This command
  is available in any buffer that lists topics, including Magit status buffers.

  Previously topic filtering relied on dedicated commands (which listed a
  hard-coded subset in a separate buffer) and functions (which inserted a
  hard-coded subset in a separate section in the status buffer).  Most of
  these commands and functions have been removed.

  The default filters can be customized using the new
  `forge-list-buffer-default-topic-filters` and
  `forge-status-buffer-default-topic-filters` options.  If you really want to
  insert additional hard-coded sets of topics in dedicated sections in the
  status buffer, you can still define them yourself, with the help of the new
  helper function `forge-insert-topics`.

- Dedicated buffers used to list topics now use a major mode derived from
  `magit-mode`, instead of from `tabulated-list-mode`.  This makes it possible to
  remove a lot of duplication (because these buffers now use the same code as
  the topic list sections, displayed in the status buffer), and makes adding
  new features more feasible.

- `forge-dispatch` and the newly added menu commands (such as the already
  mentioned `transient-topics-menu`) now provide bindings to switch to any of the
  other menus.  Similarly they provide bindings to switch to list buffers.

  This should make it easy to discover the new commands, and reduces the need
  to memorize new key bindings.  It is sufficient to remember that `N` invokes
  `forge-dispach`, and to then browse the other menus from there.  That being
  said, more efficient, but harder to remember, bindings are also available,
  such as:

- The new prefix command `forge-topic-menu`, now provides the most convenient way
  to edit an existing topic.  When point is on a topic, it can be invoked using
  `C-<return>`.  As is always the case in Magit, `RET` visits the thing at point in
  a separate buffer.  In the case of topics, `C-u RET` does both; it displays the
  buffer and the menu.

- The parts of the Github API, that one has to use when syncing the private
  topic status, are truly abysmal.  When I first created Forge, I figured that
  something so fundamentally broken would surely be fixed within a few months,
  and decided to wait until that was done.

  I was wrong, five years later nothing has changed, and I had no choice but to
  put in a lot of effort to implement workarounds, to achieve something that is
  worse than what could be trivially achieved, if the API were merely bad.

  Most frustratingly the ternary unread/pending/done is represented in API
  responses using a boolean.  That obviously puts limits on the accuracy one
  can achieve in a third-party client.  While that is the worst defect, it is
  just the tip of the iceberg.

- All the possible values for the public "state" and the private "status" of
  topics are now supported.

  The public state basically answers the question whether a topic has been
  closed yet, and if so, for what reason.  The state can be one of `open`,
  `completed` and `unplanned` for issues, and `open`, `merged` and `rejected` for
  pull-requests.

  The private status answers the questions whether /you/ have seen the latest
  changes yet, that someone else made to it, and when that is the case, whether
  you have additionally decided that you are "done" with that topic.

  Due to the defects of the Github API mentioned above, the distinction between
  the `pending` and `done` statuses of a topic cannot be synchronized with Github.
  So if you use both Forge and the web interface, you will sadly have to perform
  the "mark as done" action twice.

- By default Forge now lists "active" topics, i.e., topics whose public state is
  `open` and/or whose private status is `unread` or `pending`.  In other words `active`
  topics are those that likely still require your attention.

- At least Emacs 27.1 is required now.  Several dependencies have bumped their
  respective minimal requirement, so I had no choice in the matter, but to be
  honest, I am not unhappy about it.

- EmacSQL 4.0.0 is required now, which automatically uses the best available SQL
  backend.  The new backend, which utilizes the built-in support (added in Emacs
  29.1) is preferred.  When using an older Emacs version, or when Emacs unwisely
  was compiled without SQLite support, then a different new backend is used.
  That backend uses the C module provided by the `sqlite3` package, which you have
  to install explicitly.  If the module also isn't available, the legacy backend
  is used as a last resort.  That backend is less reliable and much slower than
  the newer alternatives, and is going to be removed from EmacSQL in a not so
  distant future.

- It is now possible to add repositories to the local database, without first
  cloning the respective Git repositories, using the same command used to add
  the current Git repository.  That command, `forge-add-repository`, now also
  offers to fetch only individual topics, or all topics that were modified
  since a cut-off date of the user's choosing, instead of all topics.

- A project's topics can now be listed, visited and modified even if no local
  clone of the respective Git repository exists.  One way to navigate to such
  a project's topics is to list all repositories using `N l r` and then press
  `RET`, while point is on the repository in question.

- Added new transient menu commands `forge-topic-menu`, `forge-topics-menu`,
  `forge-topic-state-menu`, `forge-topic-status-menu`, `forge-repositories-menu`,
  `forge-configure`, `forge-post-dispatch` and `forge-notifications-menu`, and
  converted `forge-add-repository` to a menu command.

- Added new commands `forge-add-some-repository`, `forge-browse`,
  `forge-browse-this-repository`, `forge-browse-this-topic`,
  `forge-checkout-this-pullreq`, `forge-forge.graphqlItemLimit`,
  `forge-issue-state-set-completed`, `forge-issue-state-set-unplanned`,
  `forge-list-global-issues`, `forge-list-global-pullreqs`,
  `forge-list-global-topics`, `forge-menu-quit-list`,
  `forge-notifications-display-all`, `forge-notifications-display-done`,
  `forge-notifications-display-inbox`, `forge-notifications-display-saved`,
  `forge-notifications-style-flat`, `forge-notifications-style-nested`,
  `forge-post-toggle-draft`, `forge-pull-this-topic`,
  `forge-pullreq-state-set-merged`, `forge-pullreq-state-set-rejected`,
  `forge-read-topic-lift-limit`, `forge-refresh-buffer`,
  `forge-rename-default-branch`, `forge-toggle-topic-legend`,
  `forge-edit-topic-state`, `forge-topic-state-set-open`,
  `forge-topic-status-set-done`, `forge-topic-status-set-pending`,
  `forge-topic-status-set-unread`, `forge-topic-toggle-draft`,
  `forge-topic-toggle-saved`, `forge-topics-all-types`, `forge-topics-filter-active`,
  `forge-topics-filter-assignee`, `forge-topics-filter-author`,
  `forge-topics-filter-issues`, `forge-topics-filter-labels`,
  `forge-topics-filter-marks`, `forge-topics-filter-milestone`,
  `forge-topics-filter-pullreqs`, `forge-topics-filter-reviewer`,
  `forge-topics-filter-saved`, `forge-topics-filter-state-completed`,
  `forge-topics-filter-state-open`, `forge-topics-filter-state-unplanned`,
  `forge-topics-filter-status-done`, `forge-topics-filter-status-inbox`,
  `forge-topics-filter-status-pending`, `forge-topics-filter-status-unread`,
  `forge-topics-group`, `forge-topics-set-limit`, `forge-topics-set-order`,
  `forge-topics-ungroup`, `forge-visit-this-repository` and `forge-visit-this-topic`.

- Added new options `forge-buffer-draft-p`, `forge-limit-topic-choices`,
  `forge-list-buffer-default-topic-filters`, `forge-repository-list-columns`,
  `forge-repository-list-mode-hook`, `forge-status-buffer-default-topic-filters`
  and `forge-topic-repository-slug-width`; and remove old options
  `forge-database-connector`, `forge-topic-list-mode-hook`, `forge-topic-list-order`,
  `forge-topic-list-limit` and forge-pull-notifications.

- Added new faces `forge-dimmed`, `forge-issue-completed`, `forge-issue-open`,
  `forge-issue-unplanned`, `forge-pullreq-merged`, `forge-pullreq-open`,
  `forge-suffix-active-and-implied`, `forge-suffix-active`, `forge-suffix-implied`,
  `forge-topic-done`, `forge-topic-header-line`, `forge-topic-pending`,
  `forge-topic-slug-completed`, `forge-topic-slug-open`, `forge-topic-slug-saved`,
  `forge-topic-slug-unplanned`, `forge-topic-slug-unread` and
  `forge-pullreq-rejected`.  Some of them are approximate replacements for the
  removed faces `forge-topic-closed`, `forge-topic-merged`, `forge-topic-open` and
  `forge-topic-unmerged`.

- Added new Git variable `forge.graphqlItemLimit`.  Ghub now fetches fewer items
  at once by default, but if you repeatedly get `HTTP Error 502, "Bad gateway"`,
  when pulling API data for some repository, then limiting this to below 50
  is likely to help (but results in more requests and slows down pulling.)

- If Forge cannot access its database, it disables itself, to keep Magit usable.

- The essential function `forge-get-repository` has undergone several rounds of
  improvements and now much better serves the diverse needs of its callers.

- When the user has to select a topic using completion, they are initially only
  offered open topics to select from, but by pressing `+` the choices can be
  extended to include all topics.

Also included are many other new features, improvements and bugfixes.

# Changes in 0.4.1

- `forge-add-repository` now guides the user to set `forge.remote` and provides
  pointers to the relevant documentation, when additional configuration is
  required, before a repository can be added to the database.  834c81492 et al.

- `forge-add-repository` and `forge-pull` used to error for repository not hosted
  on a known host or when called outside any Git repository.

- Ssh host aliases did not get resolved as intended.  #689

- In `forge-notifications-mode` buffers `C-c C-c` used to error.  7bcdffc75

- The "dwim" value displayed for `forge.remote` was inaccurate.  6ec5ad186

- Added new "Setup a Partially Supported Host" section to manual and fixed
  various typos.  4f6e58b4c

- Fixed inaccurate information and typos in the manual and usage messages.
  aa72a4d13 et al.

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit][rel-reddit] and [Github][rel-github].***

[Emacs]:  https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs
[Forge]:  https://github.com/magit/forge
[forges]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forge_(software)
[Git]:    https://git-scm.com
[Magit]:  https://github.com/magit/magit
