---
layout: default
categories: magit
date: 2026-07-01 20:50:00 +0200
title: "Magit 4.6 released"
version: 4.6
excerpt: >
  I am excited to announce the release of Magit version 4.6,
  consisting of 313 commits since the last release half a year ago.
---
[rel-notes]:  https://github.com/magit/magit/blob/main/docs/CHANGELOG.4#v460----2026-07-01
[rel-reddit]: https://old.reddit.com/r/emacs/comments/1ukukzs
[rel-github]: https://github.com/magit/magit/discussions/5601

# Magit {{page.version}} released
{{page.excerpt}} The release notes can be found [here][rel-notes].
{% include release-prelude-magit.md %}
{% include donate-tiny.md %}

# Blob improvements

The primary focus of this release are blob-visiting buffers.  For
now the hope is that most users will find working with such buffers
slightly more pleasant, without necessarily becoming aware that
anything changed.  The goal was to pay off technical debt and to
prepare for future changes.

- Visiting blobs now always involves `magit-find-file-noselect`, even
  when an existing buffer may be involved.  The behavior of this
  function is getting closer to that of `find-file-noselect`.

- Implemented support for visiting blobs for the benefit of features
  such as syntax-highlighting, as opposed to the user visiting it
  explicitly.  Such "volatile" blob buffers are hidden and are cached
  for a while, in case they are needed again.  If the user visits a
  hidden cached blob, the buffer is renamed to reveal it, and it is
  no longer subject to garbage collection.

- Blobs can now alternatively be visited with nothing but a blob
  object id (instead of a revision and a path).

- Blob-visiting buffers can now be reverted with `g`, which is useful
  when the buffer is visited via, e.g., a branch, as opposed to a
  revision or blob object id.  The buffer is not needlessly refreshed,
  if the blob oid does not change.

- Improved support for jumping to the same location in another blob,
  from a buffer visiting a blob or file.

# Experimental syntax highlighting in diffs

- Syntax highlighting can now be enabled for diffs.  This is disabled
  by default, because the work is still being performed synchronously,
  which leads to noticeable delays for large diffs and can be sluggish
  even for smaller diffs.

  A future release is going to add support for asynchronous diff
  syntax highlighting.  (The blob buffer cache added in this release
  does help, but is not enough.)

  Configure `magit-diff-fontify-hunk` to try out this feature now, but
  please just disable it again, if it turns out to still be too slow
  for your taste.  If you enable this, you should also customize the
  new option `magit-diff-specify-hunk-foreground` and possibly the new
  option `magit-diff-use-indicator-faces` as well.
  
# Improved Git hook to Elisp hook bridge

- The new Git variables `hook.NAME.event` and `hook.NAME.command` are now
  used to call Elisp hooks from Git hooks.

  After waiting for such functionality for two decades, I came to the
  conclusion that this will never be implemented, and finally added a
  noisy kludge to get the same functionality anyway, in the previous
  release.  Of course, just one release later, Git added the missing
  functionality 😝.  We now use Git's variables, which means that Elisp
  hooks can now only be called from Git hooks when using Git v2.54.0
  or greater.

# Improved commit message authoring

- Added support for compiling a list of definitions that are modified
  in a diff, and for inserting such lists when authoring commit
  messages.  The new commands `git-commit-insert-changelog-gnu` and
  `git-commit-insert-changelog-plain` insert such list and can be
  invoked from the same menu (on `C-c C-i`), which is used to insert
  commit trailers.

- When authoring commit messages, `complete-symbol` now completes
  against modified definitions and symbols appearing in modified
  lines.

{%include donate-main.md %}

<br/><br/>***Comments on [Reddit][rel-reddit] and [Github][rel-github].***
